# Email Generator

<p align="center">
This project auto generates an unique employee-id, email-id and an one Time Password for login in the email. Also it takes an alternate email-id and new pasword from the user as input.

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/Anamika-2000/Email-generator-application/blob/master/Readme.md"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
<br>
<br>
    <a href="https://github.com/Anamika-2000/Email-generator-application">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/Anamika-2000/Email-generator-application/issues/new">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/Anamika-2000/Email-generator-application/issues/new">Request Feature</a>

## Table of content
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Description ](#description)
- [Pre-Requisites](#pre-requisites)
- [Authorization](#authorization)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Additional functionality](#additional-functionality)

<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>


## Usage

 The email application can be used in a large organization to facilitate the creation and management of employee email accounts. It generate email address and password.  These credentials can be used by the employee to access their email account and send/receive emails.

 
<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>

## Description

The above project is an email application that allows users to create an email account associated with a company name and department name. It is implemented using Java and interacts with a MySQL database for storing information related to the employees.

The application begins by asking the user to enter their first name, last name, and phone number. Based on this information, an employee ID is generated by taking the initial letter of the first name and concatenating it with the phone number.

Next,the company email address is generated based on the provided information, including the user's first name, last name, company name and department. The user is prompted to enter their alternate email address and a new password.  

After generating the email address and password, the application establishes a connection with the MySQL database. It inserts a new record into the "Dataemail" table, which includes fields for the employee ID, email address, first name , last name , phone number and password.

The application handles database operations using Java's JDBC API. It loads the MySQL JDBC driver, establishes a connection to the database, and prepares an SQL INSERT statement using a prepared statement. The employee ID, email address, and password are set as parameters in the prepared statement before executing it. The application then checks the number of rows affected by the INSERT operation to determine the success or failure of the record insertion.

Overall, this project demonstrates the implementation of an email application with basic employee management functionality, including generating employee IDs, creating email addresses, setting passwords, and storing employee information in a MySQL database.

<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>

## Pre-Requisites
* MySQL
* Jdk 8
* Swing

<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>

## Authorization

There is no specific authorization for now, but if it is used by an organization then the authorization for the email application will depend on the specific requirements and policies of the company or organization implementing it. Generally, the authorization can be granted to individuals or roles with administrative privileges, such as IT administrators or HR personnel.


<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>

## Setup
   
### Local Deployment

1. Firstly clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/Anamika-2000/Email-generator-application.git
```

2. Import as java project 

### Run the application
You can use the application in the following way:

1. Run the application: Compile and run the Email_app class in a Java development environment or execute the compiled Java bytecode.

2. Provide employee information: When prompted, enter the employee's first name, last name, and phone number. The application will generate an employee ID based on the provided information.

3. Set up the email account: The application will generate an email address based on the employee's information, including their first name, last name, and department. The generated email address will be displayed on the screen. You have to provide an alternate email address for the employee.

4. One Time Password(OTP): A new one time password is generated corresponding to each email-id to login.

5. Set a new password: Enter a password for the email account when prompted. The password will be displayed on the screen. This password can be used to login afterwards.

<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>

## Additional functionality

<ul><li>The application provides additional features such as setting the mailbox capacity and changing the password for the email account. These options can be accessed by calling the appropriate methods on the Email object.</li>
<li>Store the employee record: The application will connect to a MySQL database and store the employee's information, including the employee ID, email address, and password.</li>
<li>It give option to organization that weather they want to provide the domain name of the company to the employee or not. If they do not want to provide the domain name of the company then the gmail email id is provided to the employee.</ul>

<p align="right">
 <a href="#email-generator">Back to top</a>
</p>